okay hello everyone welcome to the ipfs
we tackle for number 30 September 2019 I
am 18 brain I will host you're going to
have well a round of to use the
announcements if anyone types fiercely
into the agenda and if not then era from
Lucca centralize is going to tell us all
about the work that she's doing to
bridge different to centralize
communities and and just generally make
us all talk to each other and so do you
stick your name in the doc here
attending because otherwise how do you
know can I get a note-taker poo
oh thanks ollie or star okay are there
any other agenda items silence is
compliance okay cool
here take it away okay amazing am i
muted brilliant hello everybody my name
is era arena a bunch of scheme and I'm
gonna tell you guys a little bit really
centralized and I think I can even share
it share my screen with you in a minute
and show you some of the things but
really briefly it's a nonprofit
organization sort of researching and
advocating for a free a decentralized
web and nets really sort of kind of
pushing forward the idea of
decentralization more broadly instead of
supporting an individual projects in the
interests of greater resilience and
privacy and autonomy and choices when it
comes to internet services so it's a
kind of it's a nostalgic kind of name
that harkens back to that sort of early
feeling about the web and net where it
felt free and anyone could use it and
everyone could get involved versus now
where so many people are sort of trapped
within sort of the walled gardens of
Facebook or Google or Amazon and where
you know in a world where we
increasingly depend on digital so much
of that digital infrastructure is
controlled and designed by a tiny
handful minority of companies and that
just means that we as kind of consumers
and as societies get a worse deal on
sense of choice mmm so why don't I start
with telling you guys a little bit about
the history of the project
perhaps and let me share so me and a
couple of friends so about 6 years ago I
think this was just after the Snowden
revelations we started a list of
alternative internet projects and we got
hundreds of different projects listed
and this has kind of been as you can see
there's been over 500 commits lots of
contributors so it's really this amazing
crowdsourcing effort to show that
there's lots of different alternatives
that do exist and we kind of
individually knew a lot of amazing
projects that were happening often in
kind of basements and people when
talking to each other and weren't sort
of necessarily thinking about business
models or user experience or adoption
and we wanted to get people to start
collaborating more but also thinking
about some of those things so we started
doing I think found interviews which I
will show you here so this is the web
sites really centralized the org and
basically we kind of interviewed cool
projects so obviously gone from ipfs and
but also open Bazaar and Bo mat and back
when Asuka was doing her lives and
theory and various others really just
sort of to give people a sense that
there was lots of really amazing
exciting interesting things happening in
the decentralization space and that was
really really interesting and successful
we also organized a conference back in
2015 and which was this really
incredible wonderful time where we
actually got lots of different people
together but was quite small as being
focused on collaboration and focused on
things like tales from the vegan
movement thinking about how do you push
forward sort of unpopular ideas and and
kind of get people interested how to
talk about these things differently but
also
sort of thinking about what what a
digital rights should there be digital
rights and you know cyberpunk
blockchains various kind of things
around archiving and now what we're
doing more and more of is showcasing oh
god wait my sort of remote thing is in
the way of my tabs which is kind of
annoying you have to drag it out of the
way it's a common annoyance of zooming
and now we are doing v digests as well
so on the on the kind of on the blog we
kind of just telling people about
various different events and talks that
we thought were interesting as this is
something that heaven is kind of really
leading on helping and reviewing
different projects and again this is
quite broad it was sort of really trying
to instead of promoting any individual
project or approach thinking about the
ways in which decentralization can bring
about positive social change and it's
kind of empower people and in sort of
rebalance how digital serves people and
who it serves and so there's everything
from looking at sort of the e use
internet plans and interoperability
unionizing against YouTube and we list
various events that are happening around
the world so so this is kind of mean
thing as as all you mentioned the
September reader just went out a couple
of days ago which mentions the rebooting
the trust conference Activity pub
various different discussions and
debates about security about also that
we had a whole discussion about sort of
trolling and how do you how do you deal
with different stuff what Facebook is
saying about date
billeting privacy knitter etc and
thoughts questions should I actually
keep keep going keep going amazing so um
so to talk about I mean people come I
think there's a there's a really
interesting discussion about what does
decentralization mean and so when we
sort of started six years ago no one
really talked about decentralization
very much or they did but in very
specific communities and I think in the
last few years decentralization has
become more of a buzzwords and obviously
the kind of rise and cryptocurrencies
has encouraged that and however I think
there is this really important aspect
about thinking what does success look
like what do we actually measure well
you know what do we care about like is
decentralization good in and of itself
is it a means to some other end and what
others ends and how do we know if we're
making progress so one of the things
that I'm really interested in is trying
to kind of bring people together to talk
about these things like talk about what
is it that we care about like I know
that I care about fairness like I I
don't I don't I get very upset and
frustrated using Facebook I get very
very irritated by Google's reCAPTCHA
forum that just feels like it's
punishing me for using browsers that can
look very striking and cookies and then
I have to constantly put it in just to
do search so I don't even use Google
search anymore because it just irritates
me too much and I have to I have to use
tax outgo and you know I care about sort
of giving people greater control of the
tools that they use so and what you know
what does that mean what does that mean
in terms of hacking
of all projects what does that mean
about having smaller communities and
having digital infrastructure and
digital services that are that are
shaped by those communities and and how
do we how do we measure that how do we
sort of see progress over time so I
think this is one thing around kind of
metric success like you know why why are
we doing this what's the what's the
bigger vision that I think are really
interesting questions and then there's
also well what are the different
components about how do we get there and
a couple of different sort of campaigns
and conversations that we are having at
the moment one is very much around
interoperability and open standards so
quite soon I will be putting something
out around while talking about open
protocols and talking about how email
works but instant messaging doesn't and
events in social media don't work you
have to you have to have a Facebook
account to be invited or attend a
Facebook events you have to have a
Twitter account to interact with people
on Twitter you have to have a LinkedIn
account however it should be possible to
have an account with somebody else where
you prefer the terms and conditions of
that service without losing access to
your friends without sort of facing the
consequences of social isolation and
what does that look like in practice
what does that mean and how can we make
that happen like what's the is it sort
of build alternatives and get them
adopted enough and that other companies
have to use them is it legislation and
what has been tried before because you
know I was with w3c and we wrote some
things and some standards around social
web standards that haven't been adopted
obviously by the likes of Facebook and
Twitter they didn't show up they didn't
come to the in during the conversations
but a lot of the decentralized
Ecosystem are adopting them so Activity
pub has been adopted by a whole range of
applications another interesting area is
identity and this sort of I personally
think digital identity is a bit of a
misnomer a lot of people don't really
know exactly what that means but how do
we authenticate across different
services and what information gets
stored with company what information do
we keep and how does that work how can
we make a better friendlier more privacy
preserving secure user experience happen
across different applications if we're
aiming to use an ecosystem of different
applications as opposed to the sort of
one monoliths that is trusted how do you
do trust if you're not relying on a
really big brand like Facebook to hold
that trust
how does trust happen in in smaller
things and I think another third thing
is obviously adoption how do we move
from and I think we all probably exist
in a bit of a bubble where everyone's
really excited about all these sort of
decentralized projects and services and
they're really cool but the majority
people don't know about this they
understand it and don't know why it
matters and don't know what it means
practically like what are the different
benefits and to what extent can more
decentralized approaches bring benefits
that people care about and to whom so
thinking about who are going to be the
users is it going to be companies is it
going to be the jewels is it gonna be
governments
so really centralized helps sort of
convene some of those in conversations
we have we have a newsletter and we keep
meaning to have a meaningless but mostly
we keep meaning to promote other
people's discussions and mailing lists
and I haven't heard of that many that
you guys should obviously show what you
guys have we have a matrix channel where
people mostly talk about tech
it's very very specific but it's the
reading some choice matrix channel which
is really lovely and we will be running
a
unconference on Friday the 25th of
October in London the day before most
best a lots of people coming into town
for most fest and so we're kind of
bringing together sort of some of the
really centralized community to start
kind of working on some of these things
looking at collaborations thinking about
how do we take things forward putting
together sort of various plans and
probably further workshops I know
there's a there's a couple of
organisations that are really interested
in running the really centrist campaign
sorry the interoperability campaign with
me there's a lot of work around identity
happening with governments increasingly
thinking they need to have a more sort
of self sovereign or decentralized or
other kind of privacy-preserving
approach yeah any thoughts any questions
you've been really centralizing for some
time now right so the last conference
was in 2015 yes I'm wondering do you see
any significant progress you mentioned
that we live in a bubble like we're
focused on decentralization all the time
did what progress do you see if any
towards these goals that the fuzzy goals
of more control for users less control
for no less ill defined control for
giant corporations yeah I think that's a
that's a really interesting one a method
so one thing that has changed quite
significantly in the last couple of
years is the line the sort of the trust
in companies like Facebook has obviously
wavered after Cambridge analytical and
various scandals around you know using
people's phone number that you know
Facebook asks it's useful
two-factor authentication to essentially
and using and selling out to advertisers
so various things are coming out which
have made people realize okay this is a
this is a company that that you know
basically does what it wants and gets
away with it because they're so huge and
if you think about it again they have
like one point six I think billion
active users that log in every single
day it's like a fifth of the population
of the planet I mean that's insane it
just I just think sometimes we kind of
forget how completely crazy and saying
that is that one company and hold so
much so much of the world's attention
and the fact that everything's on that
platform means that you know spreading
missile misinformation especially voter
suppression kind of adverts are really
big on Facebook so it's all these kind
of things like oh if you're if you're a
black but by texting you know text this
number to vote don't leave the house
it'll be nice and easy like these kind
of adverts kind of go out go on Facebook
and Facebook obviously working to remove
that but the the reach of the that
platform is terrifying and their ability
to sort of subvert things and even
Facebook is sitting there saying well so
much of regulate us so I think that the
awareness is there and a lot of
politicians and people are sitting there
thinking well we need something
different but they don't know what and
very few people are at least in the
mainstream have very clear credible kind
of interventions or solutions I actually
think that these do exist and one of the
one of the things that I'm interested in
is kind of bringing that conversation to
to a more mainstream discussion which is
talking about things like well open
protocols could really help shift things
investing in decentralized sort of
resilient local solutions can can really
help shift the power imbalance and sort
of so I think the
the desire has grown so that's really
interesting some adoption has happened
so a lot of the projects sort of when we
looked at them six years ago we're
really really immature and I think very
difficult to use for a non-technical
audience and that has shifted people are
very much more aware that design is
important usability is important there's
a lot more investment
I think obviously krypton coins have
have really helped some people win the
lottery and have money to spend on
working on more usable services which is
really really wonderful like the French
government have adopted matrix instead
of instead of protocol so some decisions
and the increasing conversation that's
especially public money should be spent
on open source and open things I think
is starting to kind of roll things into
a direction that I mean I would
generally support but I think one of the
one of the questions is well this is a
this is a big very diverse community
people have very different interests and
to what extent could or should we be
pulling in similar directions if one of
the things that we care about is
diversity and and having variety then
you know you know we don't necessarily
want to be really replacing sort of
Google or Amazon with a new crypto
overlord and who is going to make us all
happy maybe some people really want that
but sorry I yeah I think it's slow and I
think it is also really hard I think
there's no I think that what we're up
against especially things like Amazon
like selling things online if people
people want to sell things online and
almost 50% of all ecommerce in the
United States goes through Amazon so
once you've out competed everybody once
or the independent
chops up shut down once everyone is on
Amazon Marketplace and doesn't have
their own supply chains
you're not very incentivized to provide
a cheap good user experience as the
company because very few people have
other options like there there is no
alternatives and we are already getting
to that stage where when we're talking
about monopolies in big tech there
aren't alternatives so it's it's not
it's not especially rosy I think that
the future dominated by by big tech and
with kind of AI ISM is a real threat so
all the more reason to get much more
radical and much more involved and talk
to each other and think about the
politics think about the implications
think about the world that we want to
see and actually push for it and work
with a diverse range of organizations to
make that happen
and go to the rekey centralized
conference and obviously comes to the
really centralized 2019 conference i
Nealon sign up to the newsletter and and
also just get involved i think there's a
huge amount to do it's a largely a
volunteer run kind of community
organization very much as a kind of
space for people to contribute and get
involved the projects that they're
interested in so there's there's ways in
which to come and do fun amazing stuff
and there's like really brilliant people
who care about this that I just want a
chat with amazing anything else what is
your one of the what does a team look
like what who is working on this
what do you work with a basis on a
day-to-day basis so primarily it's me
and happen who does the
we digest and then sort of Frances and
Ross who were around some six years ago
kind of are involved and want to be on
the board when I get around to setting
up four boards and then people kind of
drift in and out I think so some of the
Inspiral kind of or dig of people like
my friend Phoebe kind of journalists
other attack people but then it's it's
it's a kind of changing costs one of the
things that would really help make all
this stuff more amazing is money so if
any of you guys want to throw in a huge
amount of money towards this beautiful
amazing nonprofits then that would
definitely speed things up and would be
definitely acceptable I would not say no
there you go a plea for funding for
really centralized it's a great cause if
you're watching this on YouTube maybe
you should you should consider donating
this has been an amazing tool super
exciting stuff going on we're out of
time so I have to draw a close and we
will start dropping off the call to go
to other meetings yes
but thank you very much for coming on
and telling us so you've been doing this
there's been the IP of us weekly cool
thank you very much and thanks everyone